QUOTED	HEADL	 KC> Airline     Whopper Hub      Big Hubs         Minor Hubs    Vestigial Hubs
 KC> DL          ATL,             DFW, SLC         CVG, FRA, MCO[*2]  JFK(?)
QUOTED	HEADL	 KC> NW          MSP, DTW                          NRT (Tokyo) MEM
QUOTED	HEADL	 KC> US          PIT,             CLT,             PHL, DCA, LGA, BWI, IND
SIG	QUOTED	--
Christopher Davis * <ckd@kei.com> * <URL:http://www.kei.com/homepages/ckd/>
     512/03829F89 =  D7 C9 A7 80 8C 84 3F B2  27 E1 48 61 BF FC 18 B4
    1024/66CB73DD =  46 8E FD F5 12 8E 13 4C  2C 8A 92 A3 B0 D5 2A 5E
	  [ Public keys available by finger, WWW, or keyserver ]
PTEXT	QUOTED	There is no such thing as a 777-100; United is due to take delivery of
their first 777-200 (a -222, to be precise) on May 15th.
PTEXT	QUOTED	No.  The 777 is already pushing engine technologies.  If the "super-
jumbo" is a derivative, it will be based on the 747-400.  Perhaps you
are thinking of the ideas for a totally new aircraft which would use
the 777's engines, albeit four of them.  For comparison, here are the
rough MGTOW in lbs of these aircraft:
TABLE	HEADL	    777 (A-market, base)	  505,000
    777 (A-market, United)	  525,000
    777 (B-market)		  625,000
    747-400			  875,000
    747-400F			  890,000
    "new large airplane"	  900,000
PTEXT	QUOTED	At twice the weight of even a B-market 777, the NLA clearly needs a
lot more power than a twin is going to be capable of for a long time.
PTEXT	QUOTED	HNL seems to have been under construction now for well over 10 years.
What we jokingly called the "dignified welfare project" seems to be
true: when the original contractor won the bid, the project was
supposed to be small and self-contained. Over the years, the SAME
contractor continued to ask for "extensions" on the original contract.
Basically, we started with a palm-lined, single-tower airport to a
"modernized" airport (Smart Carte and all) that is always under
renovation.
The worst joke of all was the whole inter-island terminal fiasco.
Aloha & Hawaiian used to have a separate area--and when a third
carrier (oooh, was it Mid-Pac? They so come and go) wanted to share
the space, it got the big cold shoulder. So it managed to get counter
space at the main terminal--and all of a sudden a lot of people
decided that was a good idea (no need to wait for the Wikiwiki
Shuttle). That irked Aloha & Haw'n to no end...and after a lot of
wrangling and shuffling, Haw'n built its own one-story terminal near
Nimitz Highway. Aloha didn't like that--so they prompted an entire
renovation of its old terminal. Now, we have a huge, ugly parking
edifice (for inter-island all-day parkers, I guess) for Aloha--and
Haw'n operates out of it too (don't ask what happened to its old "new"
terminal--I think it got hand-me-downed to the smaller
island-hoppers).
To make a long story short (and to bring this to the original thread),
a recent state audit finally revealed what a sweet-heart deal the
original contractor had gotten itself for the last decade. Of course,
being that this is Hawaii, I wouldn't be surprised if the contractor
continues to "upgrade and renovate" HNL for another 10 years on the
same original contract it got the bid for back in the early '80s.
PTEXT	QUOTED	I worked for Western Airlines during a time when we were "giving" Hawaii
to people who purchased domestic tickets.  The rumor was that our
breakeven load factor on the Honolulu routes was . . drum roll . . 200%.
Losing a dollar on every seat but making it up on volume :-)
George
ITEM	QUOTED	1. SJC-NRT has not required a load restriction or fuel stop for several
years. Even on a bad day.... The runway was extended and MDC worked out
some of the range problems.
2. Latin America is one of the fastest expanding markets. Keep watching
it as their economies grow and the rest of the world is still faltering.
ITEM	QUOTED	3. AA got PHL-LHR because they originally bought the authority from TWA, and
were not allowed to pick up the authority in 1991. They also paid for
STL-LHR and ended up having to give it back (without a refund!) to TWA.
ITEM	QUOTED	4. The traffic justified both routes, as did the community and civic
support (a trick learned from UAL's bid for ORD-NRT). With the amount of
high-tech and offshore manufacturing in both TN and NC, there was demand
and commitments to use the service. I didn't see that in DL's bid, aside
>from  the alleged support of the Mormon church....
PTEXT	QUOTED	You've heard whispers.  You've heard rumors.
Well ... they're true!  There actually is going to be a GSB this week:
PTEXT	QUOTED	As WN grows, more connections become possible and so they will clearly
be picking up connecting/one-stop traffic.  But I find it hard to believe
that the traditionals are only now waking up to the fact that they
compete with WN on these routes.
Incidently, how does this mesh (if it does at all) with the following
fact:  In its latest schedule, WN has a plethora (maybe 10 or more) of
one-stops from Chicago Midway to Houston Hobby.  They have to be carrying
enough traffic in the market that they'd benefit from putting on at least a
couple of nonstops.  So why don't they?  (Don't tell me they're afraid
of CO, Kevin, I can't believe that's it(*)).  There are other places where
you figure Southwest would short-circuit onestops with at least one
nonstop.  I don't see what the downside of this would be.
PTEXT	QUOTED	(*) CO: the Rodney Dangerfield of the majors.  They can't get no
respect from no-one!
